This will contain the steps needed for the various commands

creating a vagrant file that will determine the type of dev server we want to create
  in the folder for the project
  vagrant init ubuntu/bionic64
  this will create a template vagrantfile with some basic vanilla image settings which we then modified based on the course
  these modifications are for scripts and settings we want to run whenever we initialise the server

Starting Vagrant server box
  vagrant up
  this will download the base image from the vagrantfile and then use VM to initiate the server and run the scripts we have customised.

Accessing the vagrant machine
  vagrant ssh
  this is a virtual machine that resides on our local machine. While its up we can run commands on it that dont run on the local machine.
  Everytime it is started up it creates a synchronised directory that loads up its folders with all the files from the local project on the local machine that we have created (its the folder within which we have created the machine - aka project folder)

Disconnect from the machine
  exit

Changing to the synced folder (between the server and local machine)
  cd /Vagrant

Creating a python virtual environment (new file is created in the vagrant server home directory so that it doesn't sync with the vagrant folder)
  python -m venv ~/env
  the path specified is in the home directory and not the synchronised folder so that whenever we create a new virtual machine its using a fresh python environment.

Activating the virtual environment
  source ~/env/bin/activate
  this is indicated as the env appears as a prefix at the command line.

Deactivating the virtual environment
  deactivate

installing the requirements for the project (the filename used is where the versions are all listed. Note: these are not the latest versions but those used in the course)
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  before running this we need to ensure that we are in the virtual environment.

Creating a new Django project (start a project with the name (as per parameter following it), the last dot indicates that the project must be created in the current root location else a sub folder is created)
  django-admin.py startproject profiles_project .
  profiles_project is the name of the project

Create a Django app called profiles_api
  python manage.py startapp profiles_api


Enable the app under the Django project. For this we open the settings file in the django project and list the app we want to enable as listed below
  Adding apps to the installed apps of the django project
    Access the profiles_project(django project) setting files and add new lines to the INSTALLED_APPS section. We added the following
    'rest_framework', - this is the django rest framework app
    'rest_framework.authtoken', - this is the auth token app - allows us to use the authentication token that comes with the framework
    'profiles_api', - this is the manually created app

Starting our development server
  In the virtual environment folder of the vagrant server type
  python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
  0.0.0.0 - means make it available on all available network adpaters on our development server
  8000 says start it on this port

Stop the development server
  Ctrl + C

Creating our own custom  user database model and model manager
  access the models.py file in the app created and import libraries and create classes and objects
  each model corresponds to a table within the database. Django handles the interaction between models and DB so no SQL is needed.
  Good practise is to always create the models in the models.py file within the app.
  the default that comes in the app is basic and that is customised.

  For the project we created a user profile model and then a base user manager to tell django how to manage the user model.

setting the django project to use the custom created user database model and manager by accessing the settings file from the django profiles_project and adding the line to the bottom of the file
  AUTH_USER_MODEL = 'profiles_api.UserProfile'

create migrations and DB
  django manages the DB by using a migration file that cotains all the steps needed to ensure that the database matches the models. Everytime a model is added and/or changed a new migration file needs to be created.
  this is done from the venv on vagrant server
    python manage.py makemigrations profiles_api

run migrations
    python manage.py migrate

Enabling Django Admin on server
  Before we do this we need to create a superuser so that it has all access. This is done using the django terminal by getting to vagrant and activating the python virtual env.
    python manage.py createsuperuser
    Enter email address
    Enter name
    Enter password

Enable Django Admin
    Add the model to the admin.py file that is automatically created when app is created
    from profiles_api import models



    admin.site.register(models.UserProfile) - this tells the django admin to register the userprofile so that is accessible through the interface.


Creating API views
  An API view is the most basic view we can use to build our API. It enables us to describe the logic that makes our end point. it allows us to define the functions that match the standard HTTP methods - get, post, put, patch and delete. We can customise each of these basic functions and create complex logic to control what happens at the API endpoint.
  access the views.py file in the app folder

  remove all existing content and add the following

  from rest_framework.views import APIView
  from rest_framework.response import Response
  define class and function for the API views

Configuring view URLS
  create a new urls.py file in the profiles_api folder
  add it to the url pattern in the urls.py in the django project root folder
    add include to the import step along with path
    add a new line under the existing path as
    path('api/', include('profiles_api.urls'))
    Djnago then uses these values to load up a list of URLS associated with teh API.

serialiser
  A serialiser is a django feature that allows us to convert data inputs into python objects and vice versa. Like a django form.
  Create a new file in the profiles_api app called serialisers.py. Good practise to keep all serilaisers in one single file
  Create a function that allows the name to be defined.

Adding a post function to the APIView
  Open up the views file and import a few more functions

Viewsets
  Viewsets allow us to write the logic end points. The difference is that the unlike APIViews Viewsets accept functions that map to common API object actions. Eg: List, Create, Retrieve, Update, partial update, destroy.
  Viewsets


Building a Profile API
  We need to first sort out the requirements that we need for planning the API. This would include
    View all profiles
    Update a profile
    Create a profile
    Delete a profile

  Based on that we would then determine what URLs the API must have. So based on the requirements we would say that if
    URL has just the first level like /api/profile/ we can
      View all profiles
      Create a profile
    URL has a profile ID - like /api/profile/<profile id>
      View a specific profile
      Update the Profile
      Delete the profile

Creating a profile serializer
  We need to introduce a model serializer to handle the profile api
  
